Now of course here I'm using a scroll view and you'll learn that a flat list is better if you have a
list where you don't know how many items you'll have in there.
Now for our game a scroll you actually will be fine because yes we don't know how many items it will
be and few radically for guessing very poorly we'll have around 100 items in there but that will happen
almost never and therefore typically this list will not hold more than 10 15 20 at most items.
And therefore this will very likely never cause us any performance issues.
And using a scroll view here is absolutely fine because yes it's a list dad holds multiple items that
will exceed our screen boundaries but it will rarely be a list with a lot of items it will never be
a list with more than 100 items due to the way our game works.
So scroll you would be fine here but in case you still want to use a flat list let me show you this
as well.
For Dad we can add flat list here and that of course means that we need to import flat list from React
Native.
So you're all import flat lists like this.
And with flat list import did you learned that flat list takes a data prop which points at the data
that you want to feed in and in our case here.
Dad would be our past guesses array and that you then have a render item prop which allows you to well
output the items for every item in the data you are feeding in so output components for every item in
the data.
And here I can point at render list item which should be called now.
Right now it is willing to work for a couple of reasons for one render list item expects two values
but render item here on flat list will only forward one item and that's that item data which holds information
about the index and about the item we're about to print.
The other thing that will cause us problems is the key.
You might remember that flat list expects to get objects in the array you're passing in where each object
has a key property it can extract and use as a key for efficient rendering.
Now we don't have an array of objects here we have an array of numbers and that's not going to work.
Now we can add a key extractor here to flat list to overwrite its default key extractor or takes a function
which gets our item in the end and then we have to tell flat list where to find our key and by default
it looks for item dot key or for item thought idea.
Here we want to tell it while the item itself is key.
Now flat list however once a key which is a string and not a number.
Otherwise we'll get a warning.
So the next thing we have to do is the past guesses were managing should be strings and that's no problem
because we're only using them for printing them to the screen anyways so we don't really care if they're
technically stored as a number or as a string and hence here when we add a new guess we can simply call
to string which has a built in JavaScript method on the number to convert it to a string type and do
the same for the initial value of course here where I add my initial guess call to string there as well
and now we have strings and they can be used as numbers.
Therefore now as I said Render list item is expecting the wrong arguments though name of round won't
work like this value all the work won't work like this instead we're getting the item data and we can
still expect an extra argument though.
This however then has to be expected as the first argument because we can now simply go down to render
item here on the flat list and bind arguments that should be passed in so we can't add additional arguments
besides the default argument which will be passed in now bind expects this as the first argument so
that we set what this should refer to in the function we're calling we don't care here so I'll just
add it to this.
You could also set it to null it does matter.
The second argument we add here then will be the first argument received by that function and that should
be our round number which should be passed.
Yes this stored length previously I deducted the index here but that doesn't work anymore because I
don't have access to the index anymore.
We're not mapping manually so I'll just pass the length in there.
And the good thing is I can get the index inside of render item out of the item data.
This default argument will all be passed in by react and the default argument automatically is passes
to last argument.
So the first arguments will be the arguments you set up and bind.
In this case that's only one argument.
Our number of rounds or our length of the array and then any default arguments which would have been
passed normally will be added as additional arguments at the end of your argument list here.
Now here are a number of round also isn't a fitting name anymore.
Instead it's the list length that sounds like a better name because that's what we're getting.
But then here we can calculate our number of rounds by using list length and then by deducting item
data dot index because the item data or getting automatically by React Native is an object which also
has an index property which is the index of the item you're outputting and you also get item data dot
item and Dad's the item itself which in our case is the guess.
We now also no longer have to add a key here because that key thing will be done by React Native thanks
to the flat list so that was a lot of work.
Now we should be able to output a list again.
So let's save this and let's give it a try.
Here and that seems to work.
However of course we lost to positioning though previously what we did is we added content container
style styles list here to the scroll view.
The good thing is you can do that on the flat list too whilst you can add a style just like on the scroll
view this style allows you for example to add a margin around the list but it doesn't allow you to align
the content inside of the list for Dad.
Instead use the content container style which is supported by flatness as well.
And therefore here we can alter point at Styles list and therefore this should now just work as our
scroll you did before.
So let's give this a try and you'll see we start at the bottom here and we can now start adding items.
Now let's see if scrolling also works as it should.
Yes it does and we can see the latest item and the oldest item.
And yes there is something wrong with the positioning of the items in the list item.
I'll come back to this but generally this works let's all the tested on Android.
So there.
Let's start guessing and hope we don't solve this too early.
Note that works.
And here we can also scroll as you can see so that works with the flat list as well.
Now what about these strange distribution of content here in our list items.
Well you'll notice that the list items themselves are bigger than they were before.
The content is distributed as if the list item would end here though and that's indeed the problem.
We have a width of 60 percent off the list item and our content respects this but our borders.
Strangely enough doesn't.
To fix this strange flat list behavior what you can do is you can go to your list container that holds
the overall list and set the width there to your desired list with at the end like let's say 60 percent
and give your list items of width of 100 percent.
So now the list container overall is smaller is less wide and therefore you list items assume that width
and half well the same width.
And since you rarely have to use case where your list container needs to be wider than the list items
because what else would be in there in the list container that should be a fine solution.
Now if you do that you'll notice that the width looks better but actually the positioning now is a problem.
Well since we now have the width controlled on the outside list container we can get rid of all line
items center here on the list itself.
So list don't forget wants to sell add a 2 content container style.
We keep the style there but I removed a line items center because there is nothing to center now.
We have the width set on the list container not on the list items.
So thanks to them having 100 percent they're well centered automatically because to take up the full
with anyways and therefore now if we give this a number try.
This seems to work way better and the list items are actually laid out in the way they should be.
So if we have a number around here which maybe takes a bit longer.
Yeah.
Looking good then here we can see we get the same behavior as before we get the nice style and we also
worked around that different behavior flatness gives us let's all give this a try on Android here and
start a new game there.
Oh this will not be a long game.
Long enough.
So there also everything works as it should.
And this is how you could do this with flat list as you see works a bit differently we have to work
around it's different behavior there.
When it comes to adjusting the width of the list items but Indian ultimately does now all the works
and therefore you now learned how to lay your things out with flat list with scroll view what's special
about these list views or those scroll views in general and how you can still layout your things in
the way you want.